# 10. Developing Applications

This chapter brings together elements from previous chapters to build a complete Python application.

## Summary

- The standard Python library has a	`random` module that provides functions to generate pseudo-random numbers.
- A pseudo-random floating-point number from 0.0 to 1.0 can be genereated by the `random` module's `random()` function.
- Multiple unique random integers within a given range can be generated by the `random` module's `sample()` function.
- A program plan should define the program's purpose, required functionality, and interface widgets needed.
- In designing a program interface, the `grid()` layout manage positions widgets in rows and columns.
- Static properties **do not** change during execution of a program.
- Dynamic properties **do** change during execution of a program using runtime functionality to respond to a user action.
- Upon completion, a program should be tested to ensure it performs as expected in every respect.
- Program files can be **"frozen"** into a bundle for distribution to other computers where the Python interpreter is not present.
- The **cx_Freeze** tool uses Python's **"disutils"** package to freeze programs into executables Windows, Mac or Linux.
- A setup script describes your module distributions so **cx_Freeze** will bundle appropriate support for the application.
- When a setup script is executed with the `build` command, a distribution bundle is created that includes an executable file.
- Applications can be deployed on Windows systems using the **cx_Freeze** tool to create a simple installer.
- When a setup script is executed with the `bdist_msi` command, an MSI installer is created that will copy the distribution bundle onto the host computer, including an executable file.