# 10. Producing Results

This chapter demonstrates how C programs can utilize files, system time, random numbers, and a simple Windows dialog box.

## Summary
- A file pointer has the syntax `FILE *fp` and can be used to open, read, write, and close files.
- The `fopen()` function that opens files must state the file location and a file mode as its two arguments.
- After completing operations on a file that file must then be closed by the `fclose()` function.
- Individual characters are read and written with `fgetc()` and `fputc()` but `fgets()` and `fputs()` read and write whole lines.
- The `fread()` and `fwrite()` functions can read and write entire filestreams into and out from character buffers.
- Flexibility is offered by the `fscanf()` and `fprintf()` functions that can read and write to a filestream, **stdin**, or **stdout**.
- Error messages can be written by the `perror()` function or the `strerror()` function can write a message associated with `errno`.
- The number of seconds elapsed since the Epoch at midnight on January 1, 1970 is returned by calling `time(NULL)`.
- Members of a `tm struct` are initialized by converting the elapsed seconds count with the `localtime()` function.
- A standard date and time format is provided by the `asctime()` function, but individual components can be formatted using format specifiers with the `strftime()` function.
- Time points during the execution of a program can be established using the `difftime()` or `clock()` functions.
- The sequence of pseudo-random numbers generated by `rand()` is best first seeded with the `srand()` function and `time(NULL)`.
- Including the **windows.h** header file in a program makes the *Windows API* available to create graphical components.
- The entry point of a *Windows* program is the `WinMain()` function and `MessageBox()` creates a simple dialog box.

## Notes
- The `fputc()` function can be used to write to a filestream one character at a time - typically by looping through a `char` array. Its companion `fgetc()` can be used to read from a filestream one character at a time.
- The `fputs()` function can be used to write to a filestream one line at a time, and its companion `fgets()` can be used to read from a filestream one line at a time.
- The `fread()` function can be used to read an entire filestream and its partner `fwrite()` can write an entire filestream.
- The `fscanf()` function and the `fprintf()` functions can be used to read and write filestreams with strings and numbers.